HENRY:
I’ll be gone in a week.
Your mother’ll miss you.
‐ Taking her with me, Alan.
‐ What?
She barely knows
what year it is.
Take off your shoes.
You know your father
won’t abide
any click‐clacks in the house.
ALAN:
They call it sundownin’.
Nights are hard for your mom.
ALAN:
Warden Lacy,
he told me the Devil was a boy,
and old Dale said he caught him.
Had locked the Devil in a box.
LACY: To put an end to all
the horrors we’ve seen,
that’s what God told me.
How long ago was this?
ALAN: Don’t let
that fuckin’ kid out.
Is it time to call Pruitt?
Hey! I can be your lawyer
if you want me to be.
‐ But you have to say it.
‐ ZALEWSKI: We’re both
gettin’ out of this shithole.
( door unlocking )
( alarms ringing )
‐ Sit the fuck‐‐ ‐ ( gunshot )
( explosion )
WOMAN:
I’m gonna read you
a list of five words.
I’m gonna ask you to repeat them
in any order.
Once now, and then again
in a few minutes.
You ready?
Boat, family, church,
dog, white.
Boat, white, church...
dog...
family.
( machine whirring )
( beeping )
( machine clacking, vibrating )
( door opens )
WOMAN: You okay?
Yeah.
I’m not supposed
to tell you this, but...
your scan looks clear. To me.
Doctor Green will walk through
your results.
So, what is it?
Do you listen to loud music
in your earbuds?
It could just be tinnitus.
‐ Do you hear it right now?
‐ Comes and goes.
Used to bother me
when I was a teenager.
Where you from?
I know you’re not a Texan.
New Yorker.
Maine.
That’s nice.
Flat houses, snow on Christmas.
( chuckles )
Yeah.
Not exactly.
You get back there much?
No.
I guess everyone thinks
they grew up
in the worst place
on earth, huh?
( sirens wail )
MAN: Five days
after the massacre,
we still have so few answers.
Why did the much‐liked
corrections officer
unleash on his fellow guards?
Along with the shocking...
( voice fades )
WOMAN: ...privatizing
of the prison,
along with the suicide
of its beloved warden,
the tragedies at Shawshank
keep piling up.
MAN 2:
In other news, the wildfires
continue to spread across
Black Mountain,
engulfing as many as 200 acres.
Firefighting teams from across
the state are pitching in,
but the residents of dozens
of houses between Castle View
and Castle Lake
have already been evacuated.
( sirens wail )
I know. I already had
a hearing scheduled.
They pushed it
three weeks after‐‐
That’s what I’m trying to tell‐‐
Look, look...
I‐I left two messages
with the judge.
I have a client who’s stuck
in Shawshank, and I‐‐
Hello?
‐ Fuck!
‐ ( distant shouting )
Sorry, Father.
‐ Thanks for coming down.
‐ Yeah, sorry for the delay.
Um...
I spoke to the cemetery,
they said they should
have a plot for my dad
ready by tomorrow.
That’s not why I called.
( water dripping )
It’s called
exploding casket syndrome.
Uh, when there’s no oxygen
to dehydrate the... contents,
the casket
becomes a pressure cooker.
Wouldn’t think remains this old
would be susceptible, but,
maybe when they resealed
the casket for transport...
‐ ( Henry grunts )
‐ Are you all right?
( muffled explosion )
( muffled gunshot )
( muffled ) Of course, with
the recent trouble at Shawshank,
there is a bit of a queue,
if you still want a service.
MAN ( on speaker phone ):
Let me understand this.
You found
the Count of Monte Cristo
in a septic tank.
He asks for his lawyer,
lawyer shows up,
you stiff‐arm the guy
to cover your ass,
one of our own guards
doesn’t like this miscarriage
of justice, not one bit,
so he does
the only logical thing
and pumps two clips
into his coworkers.
And voila!
Our very own Times alert.
And yeah, I’d like to take
a moment of silence,
mourn the dead,
be human for a change,
I really would, but I can’t
because I’m so busy
getting fucked in the ass
by your incompetence.
I don’t care if you make him
vanish into thin air
like Harry fuckin’ Houdini,
I don’t care if you bury him
under the yard or buy him
a ticket to Mallorca‐‐
whatever happens in there,
however it gets handled,
I knew nothing.
The board knew nothing.
And if things go wrong, Theresa,
there’s always room
under the bus
for one more rogue employee.
( phone disconnects )
( alarm chimes )
AUTOMATED VOICE:
Front door open.
ALAN:
Who the fuck’s that?
HENRY:
New system.
So we can keep an eye on Mom.
Both doors are rigged.
Had to get creative
with the cameras.
Four upstairs and four down.
As soon as I’m done
at Shawshank, I’m leaving.
Meantime, we can both
keep an eye on her
with a smartphone app.
Listen, until we figure out
the long‐term situation,
I need to know she’s safe.
Why not just put a chip in her,
like a golden retriever?
( phone chimes )
Hello?
Wait, what?
How soon?
NARRATOR: Three challenges will
face you, the newly paroled,
as you reenter society.
What do I do?
Where will I live?
And, finally, who will I be?
The good news is, you can be
almost anyone you want to be
if you adapt
to your new surroundings.
You will face questions
about your time in prison.
When you meet
a potential employer,
a potential landlord,
or even a new friend,
don’t be afraid to reframe
your narrative.
The person you were
when you went in,
that’s not the person
walking out today.
You can tell your own story,
be your own hero,
choose the life
you want to live.
I’m Lou Hadley, who are you?
( door buzzing )
( distant siren wails )
Look at that.
Free man.
( chatter, laughter )
There’s a burn
on Black Mountain.
State uses inmates
during fire season.
Why don’t we...
Why don’t we start from scratch?
I’m Henry.
I’m‐‐ I’m just asking your name.
( theme music playing )
"Make thee an ark of gopherwood,
and this is the fashion
thou shalt make it of."
So I built my ark...
and when his voice
came into my dreams
for six nights in a row,
he told me exactly where
he would stand at the quarry.
The reason, the stain,
the curse on our town,
dragging evil behind you
everywhere you went.
And when I brought you
down here,
I was on fire
with the Holy Spirit,
righteous, and so strong.
And‐and you looked...
you looked so small
next to my faith.
And now...
...now you still look small.
But I look old.
I am old.
After all these years,
I still don’t know
what you really are
or if I did the right thing.
Do you remember that crazy story
you told me
your first night in here?
Face.
No face.
WOMAN:
Pure retrograde amnesia.
No sign of impairment
to the short‐term memory
or structural damage
to the brain.
A purely emotional phenomenon.
Now I’m going to read you
a list of five words,
I’m going to ask you
to repeat them to me
in any order.
Ready?
Face, velvet, church,
family, red.
Face, velvet, red,
church, family.
So, uh...
how do you treat it?
There’s no magic bullet.
Sometimes it’s
a gradual process,
other cases, you put someone
back in their own home
with their own junk
and it’s just like
flipping a light switch.
Best medicine’s to get him home.
Restore the context,
restore the memories.
But don’t push it.
These things take time.
Oh, no, no.
No, I’m just his lawyer.
I brought him here so you all
could take care of him.
Well, we’re not
an inpatient facility.
I could pull some strings
at Juniper Hill,
might be able to get him
a bed by Monday.
By Monday?
What’s he supposed to do
until Monday?
( whirring )
MOLLY: So the bathroom
is back that way,
there’s no shower,
just don’t drink the water.
HENRY: You should really
stay in here this weekend, OK?
Nobody in town knows you’re out.
Let’s keep it that way.
I don’t think
this is a good idea.
I appreciate you
trying to help, but...
He needs a place to sleep,
and I’ve got one.
Look, we have no idea who he is.
He could be
the Bangor Strangler.
First of all, you made that up.
Second, you’re the one
who got him out of prison.
Yeah, because I believe
in due process.
Doesn’t mean I want him
bunking up with my...
friend.
( exhales ) Listen,
I’ll feel a whole lot better
once he’s out of your hair.
And I’m out of this town.
I’m gonna drive him up
to the hospital tomorrow
and check on that wait‐list.
( door opens )
‐ ( alarm beeps )
‐ ALARM: Front door open.
( door closes )
Ruth, you shouldn’t
have waited up for me.
Where in God’s name
have you been?
He’s got a fever.
You’re gonna kill him out there.
Ruthie...
Let me take you back to bed.
Everything’s gonna be fine.
You’re just having a bad night.
No.
Something terrible’s
gonna happen.
( bell rings )
SHIRLEY TEMPLE: ♪ The grocer
is so big and fat ♪
♪ He has a big moustache ♪
♪ He looks
just like a walrus ♪
♪ Just before
he takes a splash ♪
♪ Animal crackers
in my soup ♪
♪ Monkeys and rabbits,
loop the loop ♪
♪ Gosh, oh, gee,
but I have fun ♪
♪ Swallowing animals
one by one ♪
♪ In every bowl of soup
I see ♪
♪ Lions and tigers
watching me ♪
♪ I make ’em jump
right through a hoop ♪
♪ Those animal crackers
in my soup ♪
♪ When I get hold
of the big bad wolf ♪
♪ I push him under to drown ♪
♪ Then I bite him
in a million bits ♪
♪ And I gobble him right down ♪
♪ When they’re inside me‐‐ ♪
SMALL CROWD:
♪ Happy birthday to you ♪
♪ Happy birthday
to you ♪
♪ Happy birthday, dear Gordy ♪
♪ Happy birthday to you ♪
‐ ANGELA: Yay! Good job!
‐ DAD: Yay!
Nice job, buddy.
Big brother’s birthday!
Look. Ready?
ANGELA: All right. Now, do you
want an end piece or...
GORDY:
End piece, please.
‐ ANGELA: Ready?
‐ DAD: There you go, buddy.
‐ DAD: Open your presents?
‐ GORDY: Yes!
‐ DAD: I wonder...
‐ ANGELA: Of course you do,
‐ because I bought it.
‐ Jesus, Angela,
not in front of the kids.
GORDY: Mommy,
don’t get mad today.
‐ DAD: Yeah, Mommy.
‐ ANGELA: I’m sick of this.
‐ Gordy, open your presents!
‐ GORDY: Mom!
DAD: Go to your room, Gordy.
Your mom and I have to talk.
ANGELA: No. Gordy,
open your present.
‐ ( clatter ) ‐ ( baby crying )
‐ DAD: There! It’s open now!
‐ ANGELA: Daddy opened it.
DAD: A baseball glove!
How fuckin’ original, Mommy!
‐ Go to your room, Gordy.
‐ ANGELA: Don’t touch me.
DAD: You’re the one who has
to make today about you, huh?
‐ ANGELA: Just shut up.
‐ DAD: Or what, Angela?!
‐ What are you gonna do?
‐ ( chairs scraping )
‐ I’ll stuff this fuckin’ cake
down your throat.
‐ GORDY: No, Daddy!
ANGELA: I’m gonna kill
you some day.
DAD: Why not today? Huh?
Happy birthday, son.
ANGELA: Say it again,
I’ll cut you open right now,
‐ you son of a bitch.
‐ DAD: Why not today?
‐ ( shouting, screaming )
‐ ( glass breaking )
‐ ( baby crying )
‐ ANGELA: Gordy, run!
‐ ( angry shouting )
‐ ANGELA: Get off me!
( shouting,
screaming continues )
‐ ( stabbing )
‐ ( violent pounding )
‐ ( screaming )
‐ ( fighting continues )
‐ ( baby crying )
‐ ( woman moaning )
( baby screeching )
TV: As the blaze
continues to engulf
more and more acres of forest,
Castle County Fire Department
still can’t explain how it began
or why traditional methods
to extinguish the fire
aren’t working.
The unusually quick spread
has many convinced
it’s a harbinger
of much worse to come.
And now,
back to the hits you love.
( big band music plays )
Lady on the internet
said they were made by Vikings,
‐ so I figured...
‐ ( gasps )
Oh! The Lewis chessmen?
Oh!
You know, the originals,
they were carved
out of walrus ivory
by the wife of a priest,
Margret the Adroit.
You’re still the smartest person
I know.
Well, smart enough to know
what you’re up to.
‐ ( dog panting )
‐ Come on, girl. Come on.
What else did the internet
teach you?
Chess is good
for the demented brain?
( door closes )
( bell rings )
( light thumping )
Hello?
( sniffs )
( sighs )
( grunts )
The rabbit goes...
into the hole.
No, the fox chases the rabbit.
Oh, please.
What’s the difference?
One’s a carnivore,
the other’s breakfast.
God, I haven’t had a tie on
since the day
I turned in my badge.
Mm. You’re so sweet.
It’s not sweet
I can’t tie my tie.
‐ It’s arthritis.
‐ ( chuckles )
Oh, the speech.
You tossed and turned all night.
That’s what kept you up.
There’s no shame in it, Alan.
Stage fright’ll jelly up anyone,
even an Adonis like you.
You’ll do fine, you’ll do fine.
‐ Just picture me naked.
‐ ( laughing )
ALAN:
God, I love you.
Uh... ( clears throat )
I, uh, just need to borrow
the car a few hours.
Oh, sure. You can take it
after Alan’s ceremony.
‐ I wasn’t planning on going.
‐ It’s OK, he doesn’t have to.
I wasn’t askin’.
Now, before we get started,
please join me in a moment
of silence for our fallen heroes
at Shawshank.
‐ I wanna testify.
‐ ( gunshot )
( ringing )
Thank you.
Well...
Pangborn Bridge.
Get used to the sound of that.
Here’s a man
who has served this county
with honor for decades,
who saw us through some of
our most challenging times...
who never asked
for anything in return,
even when he faced his own
tremendous challenges.
A man who epitomizes
the very soul
of the great town
of Castle Rock.
A man that needs
no introduction from me.
Alan Pangborn, everybody.
( audience clapping )
I guess I oughta
thank the wildfire
for smoking you all
out of your houses.
( mild laughter )
Um...
I wanted to be a magician
when I was a kid.
They always seemed to have a
lovely assistant hanging around.
But, a magician
has to tell a little story.
Something to distract you
while they...
palm an ace off the deck.
I was never any good at that.
Never any good at the patter.
‐ And...
‐ ( dog barking )
( growling, barking )
WOMAN: Quiet!
ALAN: If I’ve done any good
in this town...
‐ ( clears throat )
‐ ( dog continues barking )
If I’ve done any good,
it’s because
of the gift of faith
you people have given me.
‐ ( dog barking )
‐ ALAN: Good people.
I just hope I’ve left
Castle County a little better
‐ than I found it.
‐ ( dog barking )
Ruth?
Ruth!
( dog continues barking )
Mom!
( crowd gasping )
( splashing )
WOMAN:
Oh, no! Somebody help!
( splashing )
( siren wails )
( bell rings )
Hey.
I’m back.
Hello?
( sirens wail in distance )
( sirens continue )
Hey, I don’t know where you are,
but I thought I should tell you,
the kid, um, wandered off.
So, call me when you get this.
JACKIE: Okay, so then
the next‐door neighbors
got gassed in their house.
Just a freak accident,
supposedly.
Cracked furnace case.
They all died in their sleep
on Christmas Eve.
Shit you not.
( music playing )
Lined up the body bags
right on the lawn.
Plus the dog and cat.
This is before I was born.
Just like everything interesting
that’s ever happened here.
I mean, they say
write what you know,
but this town is so blah.
I mean, people bitch
about the bad old days
when there were, like,
serial killers
and psychopathic dogs,
but I would give my left tit
to go back there.
The eighties, man.
I had this uncle, though.
He was a writer, too.
And then, one winter,
he just flipped his lid
and tried to ax‐murder
his wife and kid
at some fancy ski resort.
And my folks will never
talk to me about it.
So I took his name
just to piss them off.
My real name’s Diane.
WOMAN:
We have breaking news.
Less than an hour ago,
a firefighting helicopter
exploded near Castle Lake,
killing the pilot
and two firefighters onboard.
‐ They were attempting...
‐ JACKIE: This fucking lighter.
...that originated
on Black Mountain
with flame retardant
when the pilot
apparently lost control
of the aircraft.
( Jackie speaks indistinctly )
This tragedy means
five people have now died
as a result
of these powerful fires.
Multiple others
are at County Hospital
being treated for burns,
many of whom
are in critical condition.
It was all they had left
in the machine.
( grunts )
She’s usually OK
in the mornings.
( sighs )
I bought her a ring in ’91.
She said it’d be confusing
to her boy.
And she didn’t deserve it.
Happiness.
Eventually I quit asking
and moved south.
( clears throat )
Live free or die.
By the time I moved back,
I figured we’d missed our shot.
I was an old fuck anyway.
Then I get a phone call.
Somebody heard gunfire up
at your mom’s place.
I wasn’t sheriff, but folks
still rang me up time to time.
Gunfire?
What happened?
Your mother came to the door
looking like she’d been
to hell and back,
threw her arms around me,
begged me, "Don’t leave."
( exhales )
I thought I could keep her safe.
She’s awake.
( knocking )
Oh.
You gotta get back to them.
The naming.
I ruined the party.
ALAN: No, you didn’t.
You didn’t ruin anything.
It was the damn dog.
Nothing stays dead in this town.
( sighs )
It’s like I opened the book
and all the pictures...
someone tore them out.
Rearranged them.
You know how it feels,
don’t you?
To forget your own story.
( brakes squeal )
I don’t know what happened.
We were just shooting the shit.
Where is he?
‐ ( couple screaming )
‐ ( dog barking )
‐ ( baby crying )
‐ ( car strikes object )
‐ ( mysterious whispering )
‐ ( woman moaning )
ZALEWSKI: We’re both
getting out...
Make a fist
and bump it against mine.
MOLLY: I didn’t know
where you went.
I was‐‐ I was worried about you.
‐ ( dog barking )
‐ ( woman screaming )
SHAWSHANK PRISONER:
I shouldn’t be here.
I should still be in the hole.
No, listen to me.
Warden Lacy was just
a sick old man.
Whatever he said to you,
it wasn’t true.
‐ ( panicked shouting )
‐ ( flames erupting )
‐ ( gunshot )
‐ ( indistinct speaking )
LACY:
...the stain.
‐ You’re just a kid.
‐ ( screaming )
‐ ( baby crying )
‐ ( people screaming )
‐ MARET: You okay?
‐ HENRY Yeah. Just...
I want Wendell to be able
to remember her when she’s gone,
and I don’t know how much longer
she’ll be able to recognize him.
I guess he could
take a bus up there.
I really appreciate it, Maret.
‐ ( beeps ) ‐ Front door open.
MOLLY:
Henry.
Molly.
I tried calling you.
I’m sorry, my phone is‐‐
( sighs )
It’s a long story.
How did you get in?
There’s a key under the frog.
So I found him on top
of the old shirt factory...
on, you know, I thought
he was gonna jump.
Whew.
Had to give him an Oxy
just to get him in the car.
He’s still in there.
He’s sleeping it off.
He feels wrong.
Well, thank you
for getting him settled down.
I think maybe we just need
to get some rest, and‐‐
OK. Um, so I’m not
explaining it right. Um...
Everyone broadcasts
at their own frequency.
Sometimes it’s deafening,
you know, like with you.
Sometimes it’s so faint
I can barely hear it.
But after years of this,
I’ve heard it all.
With him, it’s just‐‐
it’s like I was listening
to the pain of everyone
in this town all at once.
OK.
‐ ( sighs )
‐ Oh, you don’t believe me.
No, no, no, I do. I do.
I just...
Look, I don’t know
what to say to that.
Your right ear is ringing.
So loud you can barely
hear yourself think.
You feel guilty about
the clients you couldn’t save,
about those dead prison guards,
about your mom, and your father,
and your son,
who barely has a father.
And you haven’t eaten yet today.
I’m telling you,
there is something wrong
with that kid.
‐ ( door opens )
‐ Front door open.
Maybe you should
stay here tonight.
Hmm?
Come on.
HENRY: My dad spent
a lot of time out here.
It’s not the Ritz,
but it has a pull‐out.
At least it used to.
Make yourself at home.
Now...
you need anything...
you just cross the yard.
( plays single note )
( plays simple melody )
( plays classical cadence )
( continues playing )
You play piano.
Huh. That’s somethin’.
SHAWSHANK PRISONER:
I remember.
It’ll all come back to you
before you know it.
( Alan grunts )
A fuckin’ bridge.
( splashes )
RUTH: Well, I may be half
bombed, but I coulda sworn...
ALAN: You’re still
the smartest person I know.
( Ruth and Alan laughing )
( phone buzzing )
ALAN:
Hey, asshole.
Do you know who I am?
Don’t look at me like that,
fucker. You know me.
You remember.
( siren bleating )
That’s right. Lacy.
I pulled him over
in the middle of the night.
( banging, muffled shouting )
Wear a badge long enough
in this fuckin’ county,
guy with the Devil
in his Lincoln
doesn’t sound half
bug‐shit crazy.
He asked me to trust him.
God help me, I did.
I used to dream about you.
I can’t remember
my own dead wife’s face,
but I never forgot yours.
Not for 27 fucking years.
Don’t think I didn’t wonder.
Should I let a monster drive
off with a boy in his trunk?
( muffled shouting )
( banging on trunk from inside )
Now I’m an old man,
and you haven’t aged
one goddamn day.
Are you the Devil?
No.
Then what the fuck are you?!
I tried my best.
( clatter )
I tried to keep
the people of this town safe.
Where’s it land you?
You wait 30 years
for the woman you love
and finally you get her,
and she slips through
your fingers.
And here you are,
fuckin’ Rip Van Winkle.
Where’s the justice in that?
( cocks pistol )
I asked you a fuckin’ question.
I can help her.
You have no idea
what’s happening here, do you?
( music playing )